# sentiment-analysis-amazon
Sentiment Analysis for Amazon Product Reviews using Logistic Regression and Support Vector Machine

E-commerce is a kind of financial transaction that is done digitally using an online medium, where the purchase of goods is done. E-commerce provides many business opportunities since it can reach various parts of the world without distance constraints, hence why it’s becoming more and more popular all over the world. With the increase of E-commerce growth, more people are expressing their feedback through online marketplace reviews making it harder for online retailers to keep up with customer feedback. The author will use sentiment analysis and machine learning, to classify the category and help detect negative and positive feedback from customer review. The data used in this experiment is based on an Amazon mobile phone product review that is based on the review of Xiaomi Redmi 6 phone that is taken from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/parve05/customer-review-dataset?datasetId=306090. The dataset consists of 280 data, that is divided into 7 columns. Data than will be pre-processed through classifying the dataset, tokenization, removing stop words and punctuations, and stemming. The model for the experiment is trained using the dataset that is split to 80% of training data and 20% of testing data, and then lemmatized. Logistic Regression and Support Vector Machine (SVM) are then used to train the model. From the author's experiment, using a support vector machine has the highest accuracy on both predicting category and sentiment, with an accuracy of 78.84% and 84.61% respectively. Further experiments should be done with using a larger dataset and more classification methods.
